Nehemiah
Starts with: Nehemiah’s Hammer (PA) (Latent), Shiny Rock
Also: Nehemiah’s Hammer can be used in a shop (if the secret room has not been found) to turn it into a Secret Room, and using it in a Super Secret Room turns it into a Secret Shop
-When Nehemiah holds his hammer, instead of pickups, rocks drop chunks that can be thrown at enemies, but when carved a second time, the rock is destroyed and drops 1-2 pickups or rock spiders


Mom - Radiant Cards! //unlock
“Long Live the Divines!”
— Unlocks Radiant Cards

Mom’s Heart ✡️ - The Masons //familliar
“Your Personal Wrecking Crew”
— Spawns a familiar that changes every floor, can be: A tiny Nehemiah that shoots nail tears, A tiny mason that shoots brick tears, A tiny buff mason that bounces around the room and shoots a tiny spike ball at nearby enemies, and an old man that shoots rock tears at nearby enemies that split into more tears.

Isaac - Happy Hour - 1 //active
“Benefits of Nobility”
— For the current room, gives Isaac an All Stats Up (+10%) and a random worm trinket effect.

Satan - Golden Apple //passive
“The Lord Returns”
— Extra Life (x1); Respawn with 10 seconds of invincibility and 10 seconds of Midas’ touch

??? - Holy Smokes! //passive
“Return of the Torch”
— Gives Isaac a small Orange aura that burns enemies inside; +20% Angel Chance

The Lamb - Woolen Blanket //passive
“The Lord Comforts”
— The first damage taken on a floor is reduced to half a heart of damage, and after being hit Isaac has extra long invincibility; Luck Up (+2)

Mega Satan - Nehemiah’s Hammer //active
“I’m Gonna Wreck It!”
— Works similarly to Notched Axe, but instead of breaking rocks, carves them into a funny shape with a chance to drop a goodie or two; Using this item on a carved rock will destroy it, which yields a greater chance to drop goodies.
— Tinted Rocks are guaranteed to drop a pickup when carved, and tinted rock spiders upon destruction
— The Hammer can open any doors that would normally require bombs to enter, such as Secret Rooms, Paneled Doors, and the entrance to the Mines
— — Picking up Iron Bar will fully recharge this item

Boss Rush - Dumb Luck //trinket
“Foolish Wishes” //Windflower
— When Isaac stands still for one second, he gets a tear-repellant aura, similar to I - The Magician?

Hush - Oily Branch //trinket
“Smells like Olives”
— Isaac’s tears have a chance to charm enemies

Delirium - The Memoir //passive
“Take a Deep Breath”
— Damage Down (-0.4)
— Tears Down (-0.4)
— 3 Random Stats Up (+15%)
— Isaac gains a permanent tear-repelling aura, similar to I - The Magician?

Mother - Butterfly Wings (52 pattern) //trinket
“I Feel Good!”
— Higher Chance for a room to contain a tinted rock; The chance of this happening is based on your luck stat.
— (Making a 52 pattern in pixel art is gonna be pretty difficult. I have something but it doesn’t exactly look pretty)

The Beast - Old Brick //passive
“Feel the Vengeance”
— Range Down (-1.5)
— You fire Bricks out of your eyes that split into rock tears upon contact

Ultra Greed 🪙 - Gold Brick - 2 //active
“Feel the Mercy”
— Upon use, gives Isaac a golden brick that deals 3x damage and fires 8 midas rock tears upon impact.

Ultra Greedier 🪙 - Graceful Charity //card
“You Win Some, You Lose Some”
— Destroys 2 random items you possess, and spawns 3 items from the current room’s item pool

All Marks ✡️ - Cement Hearts //pickup
“Definitely bad for you”
— Cement Hearts act as heart armor, like golden hearts, except they cover your left-most heart and take 4 damage to destroy. They are also immediately destroyed when Isaac takes explosion damage


Tainted Closet 🔓 - The Condemned
— Unlocks Tainted Nehemiah


Birthright - “Strong Arm”
Nehemiah’s Hammer now breaks rocks instantly, dropping larger chunks, which deal more damage, and release 0-2 friendly Rock Spiders

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

T. Nehemiah
Starts with: Book of Ezra (PA) (Latent), Buried Secret Rooms
Also: When playing as T. Nehemiah, Walls connecting a Room with a Secret Room will stand out in some way, but will also take 2 Bombs to open
-When T. Nehemiah uses Book of Ezra, it reveals all secret rooms of the most common type (which still has not been found) on the map.


Isaac, ???, Satan, Lamb - Signet Ring //passive
“House of Xerxes”
— Isaac has a chance to shoot a Wax tear (which gives enemies Waxed); increases with luck (80% at 25 Luck)

Mega Satan - Foiled King of Clubs //card
“Destroy all who oppose you”
— Deletes all pickups in the room; each pickup has a 20% chance to turn into a Giga Bomb instead.

Hush, Boss Rush - Soul of Nehemiah //rune
“Rise From the Rubble”
— Breaks all rocks in the room, spawning rock chunks, pickups, and perma-charmed rock spiders (upon breakage, the spiders are replaced with blue spiders).

Ultra Greedier 🪙 - Disgraceful Charity //card
“You Lose Some, You Win Some”
— If you have less pickups then when you entered the current floor, the difference is returned to you.

Delirium - Book of Ezra - 6 //active
“Ab Ipso Ferro”
— When used, summons a ray of light in the middle of the current room; when Isaac enters this light he gains a temporary all stats up that slowly fades (can stack).

** Book of Nehemiah - 6 //active **
“Ab Ordine Libertas”
— When used, activates the Crack the Sky effect that summons beams of light in the room, followed by a ray of light in the center that dissipates any 1 curse on the floor if stepped into

Mother - I - The Magician! //card
“May your goal never escape you”
— Isaac gains Coninuum tears for the room
— Isaac’s Range doubles for the room

The Beast - Pistanthrophobia //passive
“Serious Trust Issues”
— Isaac gets a damage up which scales with how many enemies are in the current room, getting a +0.5 damage up for each one; when an enemy is killed, his damage continues to scale, going back -0.5.


Birthright - “Putting Rumors to Rest”
— Plays an animation of the Book of Ezra being unchained, turning it into the Book of Nehemiah.









If lucky enough

Tarnished Breakdown 🔓 - Crusade
When T. Nehemiah uses Book of Ezra in the Basement I Super Secret Room and bombs the ray of light, the room will shake, dropping the body of a keeper and the trinket “Royal Summons” 
(this trinket gives the active item of the same name, and as a pocket active if picked up by Tainted Nehemiah; this will replace Book of Ezra); 
if Tainted Nehemiah takes this item all the way to Mausoleum 2 and beats boss rush, then King Artaxerxes will spawn in the room on his throne. 
Giving this item to him will cause him to read it, and then open a door to Tarnished Nehemiah’s room.